[BLANK_AUDIO]
The apply function is another loop
function that's used to
evaluate a, a function over the margins of
an array.
Usu, usually, the function's going to be
an
anonymous one, like we showed with lapply
or it could be a function that already
exists like the mean, for example.
It's usually used to apply a function to
the rows or columns of a matrix.
Of course, matrices which are two
dimensional arrays, are going to be
the most common type of array that we're
going to use in R.
But you may have three dimensional arrays
and such.
But you, so you can use apply on general
arrays such
as taking the average of an array of
matrices, for example.
One thing to note, and you may hear this
out in the wild, occasionally, that apply,
using apply
is somehow better than ta, using a for
loop
or somehow it's faster than using a for
loop.
And that's, generally speaking, not true.
It was true a long time ago in older
versions of
the S language in R but right now, it's
not true at all.
The main reason you want to use a function
like apply is that it involves less
typing.
And less, less typing is always better,
because good programmers are always lazy.
So, apply is very useful, but in
particular on
command line, because on the command line,
when we're
interacting with data, we're doing
exploratory analysis, we want to
do as little typing as possible because it
just makes
our fingers tired.
So, how does apply work?
So the first argument acts as an array.
An array is a vector that has dimensions
attached to it.
So a matrix is a two dimensional array,
for example.
A margin, which, which we'll get to in a
second.
This is a vector, an integer vector that
indicates which margin should be retained.
And the last important argument is the
function that you want to apply to each
of the margins.
So, and then the dot dot dot argument are
other arguments that
you want to pass, include other arguments
that you want to pass to the function.
So here's a matrix that I'm creating, it
has 20 rows and ten columns.
so, in, in, in the matrix it's just normal
random variables that I've generated.
So when I apply, so what I want to do is,
I want to take
this matrix and I want to calculate the
mean of each column of the matrix.
So the way I can do this
is I can apply, use the apply function on
x.
I give it the margin, two, and I'll say
what that means in a second.
And I pass the function, mean.
And so what happens is, I get back a
vector of length
ten that has the mean of each of the
columns of the matrix.
And so the idea is that, so the matrix has
ten, sorry, it has 20
rows and ten columns, and so that you can
think of the matrix as, as, and so
dimension one has 20 rows and dimension
two has ten columns.
So, when you apply the function, mean,
over the
matrix, well, the idea is that you want to
keep the
second dimension, which is the number of
columns, and
you want to collapse the first dimension,
which is the rows.
So that, so the idea is that you're taking
the
mean across all the rows in each column,
and then
you're, and you're essentially limiting
the, the rows from the
array, so what you get back is actually
has the,
has one of the dimensions has been
eliminated.
It's really the first dimension that's
been eliminated.
And so you get this number which this
vector which
has each of the means for each of the
columns.
similarly, you can take the means of all
the rows of the array.
And I can, I can call the apply function
on x.
I give it the dimens, the margin, one,
which
means preserve all the rows, but collapse
all the columns.
And then I, I, here I'm calculating the
sum
of each the rows, instead of the mean.
So the, so, I cast the one because it says
I want to, I, because
of what I mean is I want to preserve the
rows and collapse the columns.
So here, I got a vector of 20, because
there's 20 rows.
And each, and inside each and for each
row, I calculate the sum of that row.
Now for, for simple operations, like
calculating the sum,
or calculating the mean of a column or a
ma, or, or, of a row there are special
functions that are highly optimized to do
this very quickly.
So for calculating the row sums and
row means, there's the functions rowSums
and rowMeans.
And similarly, there's colSums and
colMeans, which
do the same things for the columns.
These are equivalent to using the apply
function,
but they're very much faster than using
the apply,
because they're optimized to specifically
to do those operations.
So if you want to calculate the sum or the
mean of
a, of a column or row of a matrix, use
those functions instead.
Now you can, you know, use the
apply function to apply other types of
functions.
For example, suppose you have a matrix.
Here, I've generated, again, a matrix of
random
normal variables, that's 20 rows by 10
columns.
And suppose I want to go through each row
of the
matrix and calculate the twenty-fifth, and
the seventy-fifth percentile of that row.
So, I can apply on x I, I get, I pass the
margin of one, because it means I want to
preserve the rows.
And then I'm going to pass it the quantile
function.
Now the quantile function needs, needs,
the quantiles that you want to calculate.
So there's no default value for that, so I
actually have to pass
it to the quantile function through the
dot dot dot argument of apply.
So here, the argument for quarntile is
called probs.
And I, and I give it 0.25 and 0.75 meaning
I want to calculate the
twenty-fifth percentile and the
seventy-fifth percentile.
So what this funct, what this call does
is, it
goes through each row of the matrix, and
for each
row, it calculates the twenty-fifth and
seventy-fifth percentile.
So there's, so for each row, there's
going to be two numbers that are returned.
And what apply will do is, it'll create a
matrix that has two rows, and the number
of columns is equal to the number of rows
in this matrix, which happens to be 20.
So here, I'm going to get a 2 by 20
matrix, where in each
column of this return matrix, I've got
the twenty-fifth and the seventh,
seventy-fifth percentile
for the corresponding row.
So, for example, in the first row, the
twenty-fifth percentile
is minus 0.33 and the seventy-fifth
percentile is mi, is
0.92 and in the sixteenth row the
seventy-fifth, the twenty-fifth
percentile is minus 0.95 and the
seventy-fifth percentile is 0.88.
So you see how that works.
Now, suppose I had more than just a
matrix.
Suppose I, I had an array that I want to
do something with.
So, the so, here, I'm creating an array
with, which has normal random variables
and it has two rows and two columns and
it's ten and the third dimension is ten.
I guess I'm not sure what you would call
that dimension.
But you can imagine this.
You can think of this as being, the,
they're a
bunch of 2 by 2 matrices that are kind of
stacked together.
And the idea is that, you can imagine I
have a be, a bunch of 2
by 2 matrices, and I want to take the
average of those 2 by 2 matrices.
So, the average of the, of a bunch of 2 by
matrices is going to be another 2 by 2
matrix, which is the mean.
And so, I can call apply on this array...
And I want to keep the first, and the
second dimension, but I want to collapse
the third dimension.
So here, when I, when I give the margin, I
give it one
and two, which I want to preserve, and
then three is not there,
which means I want to collapse third
dimension.
So here, and then the function I pass it
is the mean.
So, what this will do is, it'll take my
array and it'll
collapse, it'll average over the third
dimension and give me the mean matrix.
Another way that you can do this is to use
the rowMeans function, so
even though this is in a matrix, you can
apply rowMeans to an array.
And you give it, and you pass the
argument, dims, equal to two.